---
title: Got a job and began planning out my homelab | logs from the fluffy lab [0x0]
author: BinaryBunny
date: '2022-02-13'
tags:
  - job
  - homelab
  - planning
  - fluffy lab
  - homelab log
---

It was midnight of four days ago (or five? I don't remember exactly how many) when someone texts me a job offer. I accepted it, of course. Since then, I've been working as a software developer. That's my first job and I'm as excited as ever. But then an idea pops up in my mind: *homelabbing*.

---

## My first "homelab" ever

*I've got a server at home for quite a long time.*

Some time ago, I built up a computer which I've been using as a Proxmox VE server since then. Specifications goes as follows:

- Intel Xeon E5-2620 v3 (6 cores, 12 threads total)
- 8 GB DDR4 RAM with ECC
- AMD ATI Radeon HD R7 250E (used in a gaming Windows 10 VM with PCI-Passthrough)
- 120 GB SATA SSD
- Old 40 GB HDD

(It used to also have a 500 GB HDD but it stopped working.)

*That server alone is currently my complete homelab.* After building my server, I've been playing around with VMs but shortly realized I made a huge mistake: I started homelabbing without an objective in mind, in other words, *I don't planned it.*

So now that I got a job (and therefore some money), I'll upgrade my homelab and began planning it out.

---

The drawn plan:

<center><blockquote class=imgur-embed-pub lang=en data-id=a/imsFS61 data-context=false ><a href=//imgur.com/a/imsFS61></a></blockquote><script async src=//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js charset=utf-8></script></center>

Translation for Portuguese text on there:

- "fibra ótica" means "optical fiber"
- "roteador" means "router"
- "tela" means "screen"/"display"

---

## Overview

As you can see, I planned 4 servers + 1 wireless AP + 1 Network Switch + 1 Raspberry Pi. (I already have the `[router]`, its the one from my ISP.)

Each server has a purpose:

- `antenna` is a second router and main firewall for the homelab.
- `stuff` is an Network-Attached-Storage (NAS) server for, well, storage purposes.
- `strawberry` is a VM host for services that I want to expose to the public Internet.
- `pink sugar` is also a VM host but for things that I don't want to expose public. It has two main VMs (`pink` and `sugar`): `pink` is a Linux environment for researching and software development, `sugar` is a macOS machine for video/audio editing/rendering and (maybe) music production.

Internet flows in and out from the main house router to the `antenna` server, then to my network switch, then it splits and goes to a wireless AP, to the `stuff` server, to a Raspberry Pi, and to the other two servers (`strawberry` and `pink sugar`) at the same time.

The Raspberry Pi will be connected to a screen as it's purpose is collecting and displaying data from the whole homelab.

## Hardware

For my network switch, I bought a simple D-Link DES-1008C 8-ports switch. (Image below.)

<center><blockquote class="imgur-embed-pub" lang="en" data-id="a/yj4BYbO" data-context="false" ><a href="//imgur.com/a/yj4BYbO"></a></blockquote><script async src="//s.imgur.com/min/embed.js" charset="utf-8"></script></center>

For my `antenna` server, I chose a 1U Dell Power Edge 1950 with two Intel Xeon Dual Core 5110 with 8 GB RAM (ECC), two 300GB HDDs (but I plan removing one of those) and two gigabit ethernet ports.

The wireless AP will be the Ubiquiti Networks UniFi AC Lite AP UAP-AC-LITE.

I chose the Raspberry Pi 3 for data collecting and displaying.

`stuff` server will be a HP ProLiant DL360 G6 Server with two Intel Xeon X5570, 16 GB DDR3 RAM (ECC) and two 300 GB HDDs, but I'll add a SATA SSD and some more HDDs into it.

`strawberry` is my old server.

However, the `pink sugar` server is different as I'll build it myself. Specifications as follows:

- Intel Xeon E5-2660 v3 (10 cores, 20 threads)
- 32 GB DDR4 RAM (ECC)
- GPU NVIDIA GeForce 2080 Super
- 500 GB NVMe SSD

## It continues...

Made this a 2-parts blog post because its 2 AM here and I want to sleep, so see you soon.

Thanks for reading this post! :purple_heart:
